When considering how much money to spend
on investment properties, please look at the purchase price
divided by the annual rent.
If that is under 10 times, and if you're sure
you can rent it, then this is usually a good investment
all things considered.
And I'm being somewhat conservative here as always,
as I'm not even factoring in the appreciation
on the property, god willing.
Also make you understand the property taxes
and if applicable, the condo taxes and that sort of thing
and a lot of apartment condos don't allow you to
rent them out, and a lot of these places are called co-ops.
They won't let you rent them out
and sometimes if you sell an apartment
that has lots of rules, meaning it's part of a co-op,
there's a flip tax, meaning you have to pay the building
another tax on top of it.
It's ridiculous.
That's why you get lawyers involved to read those contracts.
Of course, if you pursue this option,
meaning buying a property and renting it,
make sure that the monthly rental fee that you charge
and all other taxes and all other expenses cover all
or a very large part of the potential mortgage payments
that you're making on this rental property.
Also make sure you account for vacancy risk,
as well as repairs and upgrades,
many of which are tax-deductible.
Remember I told you to think of each property
as its own separate company,
and it has its own income statement too.
And you can depreciate almost everything except for land
when it comes to real estate in many countries,
most countries actually, and this actually lowers your taxes
and in some countries, like the United States,
interest is tax-deductible.
Let's move on now.
Please be careful not to take on too much leverage,
meaning too much debt.
And don't buy real estate when everyone else is.
Condo flipping, meaning buying and selling quickly condos,
can be deadly if you overextend yourself
like so many people did last decade,
especially in places like Las Vegas.
It was deadly.
A lot of people went bankrupt.
It was sad.
In addition to looking at the purchase price
divided by the annual rent and making sure
it's under 10 times, please also consider
this other formula I'm gonna give you here.
Take the annual rent divided by two
and then divide it by the purchase price.
This will give you the rental year.
I'm gonna say it again.
Actually, I'll put it up here too.
Take the annual rent divided by two,
and then divide it again by the purchase price,
and this will give you the rental yield.
Try to make sure that the rental yield is at least 4%,
kind of like a healthy dividend yield for a stock.
And again, I'm trying to be conservative here
with the aforementioned calculation, and of course,
this yield does not account for the potential increase
in the value of the investment property
and the opposite as well.